doc: 54H nrfutil reset kinds documentation (#17411)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_architecture_reset.rst

.. _ug_nrf54h20_architecture_reset:

nRF54H20 reset behavior
#######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. TODO

> nrfutil allows for different types of reset behavior on the various cores of the nRF54H20 SoC, based on the current lifecycle state of the device.

Reviewer: Before the section about nrfutil we should add a section about reset handling in the system. Briefly, we should capture that:

1. Reset of Secure Domain resets the SoC
2. Reset of System Controller resets the SoC
3. Reset of Application CPU causes reset of:
    * all peripherals (and VPRs) owned by Application
    * Radio CPU
    * all peripherals (and VPRs) owned by Radio
4. Reset of Radio CPU causes reset of:
    * all peripherals (and VPRs) owned by Radio
    * Application CPU
    * all peripherals (and VPRs) owned by Application

> nrfutil allows for different types of reset behavior on the various cores of the nRF54H20 SoC, based on the current lifecycle state of the device.

Reviewer 2: nRF Util behavior should be documented in the nRF Util docs, not in the NCS docs. Especially when we discuss the behavior with a specific SoC, not related directly to the NCS.

Reset kinds in LCS EMPTY
========================

.. TODO

The following is the reset behavior when the LCS of the nRF54H20 SoC is in ``EMPTY`` state:

.. list-table:: Reset behavior based on LCS ``EMPTY``
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Reset kind in LCS ``EMPTY``
     - Reset behavior
   * - ``RESET_SYSTEM``
     - Mapped to the ``SYS_RESET_REQUEST`` bit as described in the ARM specification for the *Application Interrupt and Register Controller*.
       This reset triggers a reset of the Secure Domain, which subsequently resets the entire system.

>        However, it cannot trigger a reset of other cores.

Reviewer: It suggests that `RESET_SYSTEM` triggered on Secure Domain does not reset other cores.

Instead, it should state something around "This reset type is unavailable for other cores than Secure Domain"

   * - ``RESET_HARD``
     - Initiates a reset using the CTRL-AP through the On-Board Debugger (OBD).
       The register used is ``RESET`` (address offset: ``0x00``).
   * - ``RESET_PIN``
     - JLink toggles the **RESET** pin via OBD.

.. TODO nrfutil device reset syntax

Reset kinds in LCS ROT or DEPLOYED
==================================

.. TODO

The following is the reset behavior when the LCS of the nRF54H20 SoC is either in ``ROT`` or ``DEPLOYED`` state:

.. list-table:: Reset behavior based on LCS ``ROT`` or ``DEPLOYED``
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Reset kind in LCS ``ROT`` or ``DEPLOYED``
     - Reset behavior
   * - ``RESET_SYSTEM``

>      - Mapped to the ``SYS_RESET_REQUEST`` bit as described in the ARM specification for the *Application Interrupt and Register Controller*.
>        This reset triggers a reset of the Secure Domain, which subsequently resets the entire system.
>        If other cores have a valid configuration in the ``CPUCONF`` register, they will be reset by sending a CTRL-AP mailbox request to the Secure Domain Firmware (SDFW).
>        No ADAC authentication is required to use this reset command.
>        However, ``RESET_SYSTEM`` will not work if the Access Port is protected.

Reviewer: This description is unclear on what applies to Secure Domain and what to other CPUs.
```suggestion
     - In Secure Domain this reset is mapped to the ``SYS_RESET_REQUEST`` bit as described in the ARM specification for the *Application Interrupt and Register Controller*.
       This reset triggers a reset of the Secure Domain, which subsequently resets the entire system.
       
       This reset is also applicable to each local domain other than Secure Domain.
       It is available only if the other domain has a valid configuration in the ``CPUCONF`` register and its access port is unprotected.
       The PC tool uses CTRL-AP mailbox to send a local domain reset request to the Secure Domain Firmware (SDFW).
```

I removed the sentence about ADAC, because we replaced ADAC with "CTRL-AP mailbox". It removes confusion around authentication.

Reviewer 3: @kenr  Inputs for reset via secdom to be added.

Reviewer 4: nrfutil -2.6.1

`nrfutil device reset --help`

*snip*
          
          * RESET_VIA_SECDOM: Send a reset command over ADAC to the SecDom FW. The SecDom FW handles
            the reset of other domains and defines how this process is carried out. The SecDom is not
            reset as part of this process. This option is supported on devices with the SecDom
            FW.
 *snip*

   :header-rows: 1

   * - Reset kind in LCS ``EMPTY``
     - Reset behavior
   * - ``RESET_SYSTEM``
     - Mapped to the ``SYS_RESET_REQUEST`` bit as described in the ARM specification for the *Application Interrupt and Register Controller*.
       This reset triggers a reset of the Secure Domain, which subsequently resets the entire system.
       It is available only to the Secure Domain.
   * - ``RESET_HARD``
     - Initiates a reset using the CTRL-AP through the On-Board Debugger (OBD).
       The register used is ``RESET`` (address offset: ``0x00``).
   * - ``RESET_PIN``
     - J-Link toggles the **RESET** pin via OBD.

Reset types in LCS ROT or DEPLOYED
-----------------------------------

The following is the reset behavior when the LCS of the nRF54H20 SoC is either in the ``ROT`` or ``DEPLOYED`` state:

.. list-table:: Reset behavior based on LCS ``ROT`` or ``DEPLOYED``
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Reset kind in LCS ``ROT`` or ``DEPLOYED``
     - Reset behavior
   * - ``RESET_SYSTEM``
     - In the Secure Domain, this reset is mapped to the ``SYS_RESET_REQUEST`` bit, as described in the ARM specification for the *Application Interrupt and Register Controller*.

>        This reset triggers a reset of the Secure Domain, which subsequently resets the entire system.

Author: So should I remove any mention of ``SYS_RESET_REQUEST`` here? @bjorgan

>        This reset triggers a reset of the Secure Domain, which subsequently resets the entire system.

Reviewer 5: Yeah, probably best to just remove RESET_SYSTEM in the LCS ROT/DEPLOYED list, or state that it's not supported.
